problem_soulutions/sorting_and_searching/sum_of_three_values_analysis.md, before:

# CSES Sum of Three Values - Problem Analysis

## Problem Statement
Given an array of n integers and a target sum x, find three distinct indices such that the sum of the values at those indices equals x.

### Input
The first input line has two integers n and x: the size of the array and the target sum.
The second line has n integers a1,a2,…,an: the array.

### Output
Print three distinct indices (1-indexed) such that the sum equals x, or "IMPOSSIBLE" if no solution exists.

### Constraints
- 1 ≤ n ≤ 5000
- 1 ≤ x ≤ 10^9
- 1 ≤ ai ≤ 10^9

### Example
```
Input:
4 8
2 7 5 1

Output:
1 2 4
```

## Solution Progression

### Approach 1: Brute Force - O(n³)
**Description**: Try all possible combinations of three indices.

```python
def sum_of_three_values_naive(n, x, arr):
    for i in range(n):
        for j in range(i + 1, n):
            for k in range(j + 1, n):
                if arr[i] + arr[j] + arr[k] == x:
                    return (i + 1, j + 1, k + 1)
    return "IMPOSSIBLE"
```

**Why this is inefficient**: We try all O(n³) combinations, leading to cubic time complexity.

### Improvement 1: Two Pointers - O(n²)
**Description**: Fix one element and use two pointers for the remaining two.

```python
def sum_of_three_values_optimized(n, x, arr):
    # Create list of (value, index) pairs
    pairs = [(arr[i], i + 1) for i in range(n)]
    pairs.sort()  # Sort by value
    
    for i in range(n - 2):
        left = i + 1
        right = n - 1
        target = x - pairs[i][0]
        
        while left < right:
            current_sum = pairs[left][0] + pairs[right][0]
            
            if current_sum == target:
                return (pairs[i][1], pairs[left][1], pairs[right][1])
            elif current_sum < target:
                left += 1
            else:
                right -= 1
    
    return "IMPOSSIBLE"
```

**Why this improvement works**: We fix one element and use two pointers to find the remaining two elements that sum to the target. This reduces the complexity from O(n³) to O(n²).

## Final Optimal Solution

```python
n, x = map(int, input().split())
arr = list(map(int, input().split()))

def find_three_values(n, x, arr):
    # Create list of (value, index) pairs
    pairs = [(arr[i], i + 1) for i in range(n)]
    pairs.sort()  # Sort by value
    
    for i in range(n - 2):
        left = i + 1
        right = n - 1
        target = x - pairs[i][0]
        
        while left < right:
            current_sum = pairs[left][0] + pairs[right][0]
            
            if current_sum == target:
                return (pairs[i][1], pairs[left][1], pairs[right][1])
            elif current_sum < target:
                left += 1
            else:
                right -= 1
    
    return "IMPOSSIBLE"

result = find_three_values(n, x, arr)
if result == "IMPOSSIBLE":
    print(result)
else:
    print(*result)
```

## Complexity Analysis

| Approach | Time Complexity | Space Complexity | Key Insight |
|----------|----------------|------------------|-------------|
| Brute Force | O(n³) | O(1) | Try all combinations |
| Two Pointers | O(n²) | O(n) | Fix one element and use two pointers |

## Key Insights for Other Problems

### 1. **Three Sum Problems**
**Principle**: Fix one element and use two pointers to find the remaining two elements.
**Applicable to**: Three sum problems, k-sum problems, pointer problems

### 2. **Two Pointers Technique**
**Principle**: Use two pointers to efficiently find pairs that sum to a target value.
**Applicable to**: Two sum problems, pointer problems, search problems

### 3. **Sorting for Efficiency**
**Principle**: Sort the array to enable efficient two-pointer search.
**Applicable to**: Sorting problems, search problems, optimization problems

## Notable Techniques

### 1. **Three Sum with Two Pointers**
```python
def three_sum_with_pointers(arr, target):
    pairs = [(arr[i], i) for i in range(len(arr))]
    pairs.sort()
    
    for i in range(len(arr) - 2):
        left = i + 1
        right = len(arr) - 1
        current_target = target - pairs[i][0]
        
        while left < right:
            current_sum = pairs[left][0] + pairs[right][0]
            
            if current_sum == current_target:
                return (pairs[i][1], pairs[left][1], pairs[right][1])
            elif current_sum < current_target:
                left += 1
            else:
                right -= 1
    
    return None
```

### 2. **Two Pointer Search**
```python
def two_pointer_search(arr, target):
    left = 0
    right = len(arr) - 1
    
    while left < right:
        current_sum = arr[left] + arr[right]
        
        if current_sum == target:
            return (left, right)
        elif current_sum < target:
            left += 1
        else:
            right -= 1
    
    return None
```

### 3. **Index Tracking**
```python
def track_indices_with_values(arr):
    # Create pairs of (value, original_index)
    pairs = [(arr[i], i + 1) for i in range(len(arr))]
    pairs.sort(key=lambda x: x[0])
    return pairs
```

## Problem-Solving Framework

1. **Identify problem type**: This is a three sum problem with index tracking
2. **Choose approach**: Use two pointers technique after sorting
3. **Create pairs**: Store (value, index) pairs to track original indices
4. **Sort pairs**: Sort by value to enable two-pointer search
5. **Fix one element**: Iterate through all possible first elements
6. **Two pointer search**: Use two pointers to find remaining two elements
7. **Return result**: Output the three indices or "IMPOSSIBLE"

---

*This analysis shows how to efficiently find three values that sum to a target using two pointers technique.* 

## 🎯 Problem Variations & Related Questions

### 🔄 **Variations of the Original Problem**

#### **Variation 1: Sum of Three Values with Constraints**
**Problem**: Find three values with sum x where values must satisfy certain constraints.
```python
def sum_of_three_values_with_constraints(n, x, arr, constraints):
    # constraints[i] = list of indices that cannot be used with index i
    pairs = [(arr[i], i + 1) for i in range(n)]
    pairs.sort()
    
    for i in range(n - 2):
        left = i + 1
        right = n - 1
        target = x - pairs[i][0]
        
        while left < right:
            # Check if current combination violates constraints
            idx1, idx2, idx3 = pairs[i][1], pairs[left][1], pairs[right][1]
            
            valid = True
            for constraint_idx in constraints.get(idx1, []):
                if constraint_idx in [idx2, idx3]:
                    valid = False
                    break
            
            if valid:
                current_sum = pairs[left][0] + pairs[right][0]
                
                if current_sum == target:
                    return (idx1, idx2, idx3)
                elif current_sum < target:
                    left += 1
                else:
                    right -= 1
            else:
                left += 1
    
    return "IMPOSSIBLE"
```

#### **Variation 2: Sum of Three Values with Range Constraints**
**Problem**: Find three values with sum in range [L, R].
```python
def sum_of_three_values_in_range(n, L, R, arr):
    pairs = [(arr[i], i + 1) for i in range(n)]
    pairs.sort()
    
    solutions = []
    
    for i in range(n - 2):
        left = i + 1
        right = n - 1
        
        while left < right:
            current_sum = pairs[i][0] + pairs[left][0] + pairs[right][0]
            
            if L <= current_sum <= R:
                solutions.append((pairs[i][1], pairs[left][1], pairs[right][1]))
                left += 1
                right -= 1
            elif current_sum < L:
                left += 1
            else:
                right -= 1
    
    return solutions if solutions else "IMPOSSIBLE"
```

#### **Variation 3: Sum of Three Values with Modulo Constraints**
**Problem**: Find three values with sum congruent to x modulo m.
```python
def sum_of_three_values_modulo(n, x, m, arr):
    pairs = [(arr[i], i + 1) for i in range(n)]
    pairs.sort()
    
    for i in range(n - 2):
        left = i + 1
        right = n - 1
        target_mod = (x - pairs[i][0]) % m
        
        while left < right:
            current_sum_mod = (pairs[left][0] + pairs[right][0]) % m
            
            if current_sum_mod == target_mod:
                return (pairs[i][1], pairs[left][1], pairs[right][1])
            elif current_sum_mod < target_mod:
                left += 1
            else:
                right -= 1
    
    return "IMPOSSIBLE"
```

#### **Variation 4: Sum of Three Values with Dynamic Updates**
**Problem**: Support adding and removing elements dynamically.
```python
class DynamicThreeSum:
    def __init__(self):
        self.arr = []
        self.pairs = []
    
    def add_element(self, value):
        self.arr.append(value)
        self.pairs = [(self.arr[i], i + 1) for i in range(len(self.arr))]
        self.pairs.sort()
        return self.find_three_sum(0)  # Example target
    
    def remove_element(self, index):
        if 0 <= index < len(self.arr):
            self.arr.pop(index)
            self.pairs = [(self.arr[i], i + 1) for i in range(len(self.arr))]
            self.pairs.sort()
        return self.find_three_sum(0)  # Example target
    
    def find_three_sum(self, x):
        n = len(self.pairs)
        
        for i in range(n - 2):
            left = i + 1
            right = n - 1
            target = x - self.pairs[i][0]
            
            while left < right:
                current_sum = self.pairs[left][0] + self.pairs[right][0]
                
                if current_sum == target:
                    return (self.pairs[i][1], self.pairs[left][1], self.pairs[right][1])
                elif current_sum < target:
                    left += 1
                else:
                    right -= 1
        
        return "IMPOSSIBLE"
```

#### **Variation 5: Sum of Three Values with Weighted Constraints**
**Problem**: Each element has a weight. Find three values with sum x and total weight ≤ W.
```python
def sum_of_three_values_weighted(n, x, arr, weights, max_weight):
    # Create list of (value, weight, index) tuples
    tuples = [(arr[i], weights[i], i + 1) for i in range(n)]
    tuples.sort(key=lambda x: x[0])  # Sort by value
    
    for i in range(n - 2):
        left = i + 1
        right = n - 1
        target = x - tuples[i][0]
        
        while left < right:
            current_sum = tuples[left][0] + tuples[right][0]
            total_weight = tuples[i][1] + tuples[left][1] + tuples[right][1]
            
            if current_sum == target and total_weight <= max_weight:
                return (tuples[i][2], tuples[left][2], tuples[right][2])
            elif current_sum < target:
                left += 1
            else:
                right -= 1
    
    return "IMPOSSIBLE"
```

### 🔗 **Related Problems & Concepts**

#### **1. Two Pointers Problems**
- **Two Sum**: Find pair with given sum
- **Container With Most Water**: Find maximum area
- **Trapping Rain Water**: Calculate trapped water
- **Remove Duplicates**: Remove duplicates from sorted array

#### **2. Search Problems**
- **Binary Search**: Find element in sorted array
- **Linear Search**: Find element in unsorted array
- **Interpolation Search**: Search in uniformly distributed array
- **Exponential Search**: Search in unbounded array

#### **3. Array Manipulation Problems**
- **Array Sorting**: Sort array efficiently
- **Array Partitioning**: Partition array based on conditions
- **Array Merging**: Merge sorted arrays
- **Array Rotation**: Rotate array efficiently

#### **4. Optimization Problems**
- **Linear Programming**: Formulate as LP problem
- **Integer Programming**: Discrete optimization
- **Combinatorial Optimization**: Optimize discrete structures
- **Approximation Algorithms**: Find approximate solutions

#### **5. Mathematical Problems**
- **Number Theory**: Properties of numbers
- **Combinatorics**: Counting and arrangement
- **Optimization**: Mathematical optimization
- **Algorithm Analysis**: Complexity and correctness

### 🎯 **Competitive Programming Variations**

#### **1. Multiple Test Cases**
```python
t = int(input())
for _ in range(t):
    n, x = map(int, input().split())
    arr = list(map(int, input().split()))
    
    pairs = [(arr[i], i + 1) for i in range(n)]
    pairs.sort()
    
    found = False
    for i in range(n - 2):
        left = i + 1
        right = n - 1
        target = x - pairs[i][0]
        
        while left < right:
            current_sum = pairs[left][0] + pairs[right][0]
            
            if current_sum == target:
                print(pairs[i][1], pairs[left][1], pairs[right][1])
                found = True
                break
            elif current_sum < target:
                left += 1
            else:
                right -= 1
        
        if found:
            break
    
    if not found:
        print("IMPOSSIBLE")
```

#### **2. Range Queries**
```python
# Precompute three-sum results for different subarrays
def precompute_three_sums(arr):
    n = len(arr)
    result_matrix = [[None] * n for _ in range(n)]
    
    for i in range(n):
        for j in range(i, n):
            subarray = arr[i:j+1]
            if len(subarray) >= 3:
                # Find three-sum for this subarray
                pairs = [(subarray[k], k + i + 1) for k in range(len(subarray))]
                pairs.sort()
                
                found = False
                for k in range(len(pairs) - 2):
                    left = k + 1
                    right = len(pairs) - 1
                    target = 0 - pairs[k][0]  # Example target
                    
                    while left < right:
                        current_sum = pairs[left][0] + pairs[right][0]
                        
                        if current_sum == target:
                            result_matrix[i][j] = (pairs[k][1], pairs[left][1], pairs[right][1])
                            found = True
                            break
                        elif current_sum < target:
                            left += 1
                        else:
                            right -= 1
                    
                    if found:
                        break
                
                if not found:
                    result_matrix[i][j] = "IMPOSSIBLE"
    
    return result_matrix

# Answer queries about three-sum for subarrays
def three_sum_query(result_matrix, l, r):
    return result_matrix[l][r]
```

#### **3. Interactive Problems**
```python
# Interactive three-sum finder
def interactive_three_sum():
    n = int(input("Enter array size: "))
    x = int(input("Enter target sum: "))
    arr = list(map(int, input("Enter array: ").split()))
    
    print(f"Array: {arr}")
    print(f"Target sum: {x}")
    
    pairs = [(arr[i], i + 1) for i in range(n)]
    pairs.sort()
    print(f"Sorted pairs: {pairs}")
    
    found = False
    for i in range(n - 2):
        left = i + 1
        right = n - 1
        target = x - pairs[i][0]
        
        print(f"\nFixing element {pairs[i][0]} at position {pairs[i][1]}")
        print(f"Looking for two elements that sum to {target}")
        
        while left < right:
            current_sum = pairs[left][0] + pairs[right][0]
            print(f"Checking {pairs[left][0]} + {pairs[right][0]} = {current_sum}")
            
            if current_sum == target:
                print(f"Found solution: {pairs[i][1]} {pairs[left][1]} {pairs[right][1]}")
                found = True
                break
            elif current_sum < target:
                print(f"Sum too small, moving left pointer")
                left += 1
            else:
                print(f"Sum too large, moving right pointer")
                right -= 1
        
        if found:
            break
    
    if not found:
        print("IMPOSSIBLE")
```

### 🧮 **Mathematical Extensions**

#### **1. Number Theory**
- **Properties of Sums**: Properties of number sums
- **Divisibility**: Properties of divisibility
- **Modular Arithmetic**: Working with remainders
- **Prime Factorization**: Breaking numbers into primes

#### **2. Combinatorics**
- **Combinations**: Counting combinations
- **Permutations**: Counting permutations
- **Subset Sums**: Counting subset sums
- **Partitions**: Number partitions

#### **3. Algorithm Analysis**
- **Complexity Analysis**: Time and space complexity
- **Two Pointers Analysis**: Analysis of two pointers technique
- **Search Complexity**: Complexity of search algorithms
- **Lower Bounds**: Establishing problem lower bounds

### 📚 **Learning Resources**

#### **1. Related Algorithms**
- **Two Pointers**: Efficient two pointers technique
- **Binary Search**: Efficient search algorithms
- **Sorting Algorithms**: Various sorting techniques
- **Search Algorithms**: Efficient search techniques

#### **2. Mathematical Concepts**
- **Number Theory**: Properties of numbers
- **Combinatorics**: Counting and arrangement
- **Optimization**: Mathematical optimization theory
- **Algorithm Analysis**: Complexity and correctness

#### **3. Programming Concepts**
- **Two Pointers Implementation**: Efficient two pointers
- **Search Implementation**: Efficient search techniques
- **Algorithm Design**: Problem-solving strategies
- **Complexity Analysis**: Performance evaluation

---

*This analysis demonstrates two pointers and search techniques for finding three values with given sum.*

Commit message:

Add Jekyll front matter to all 241 problem files - fix 404 errors

problem_soulutions/sorting_and_searching/sum_of_three_values_analysis.md, after:

---
layout: simple
title: CSES Sum of Three Values - Problem Analysis
permalink: /problem_soulutions/sorting_and_searching/sum_of_three_values_analysis/
---

# CSES Sum of Three Values - Problem Analysis

## Problem Statement
Given an array of n integers and a target sum x, find three distinct indices such that the sum of the values at those indices equals x.

### Input
The first input line has two integers n and x: the size of the array and the target sum.
The second line has n integers a1,a2,…,an: the array.

### Output
Print three distinct indices (1-indexed) such that the sum equals x, or "IMPOSSIBLE" if no solution exists.

### Constraints
- 1 ≤ n ≤ 5000
- 1 ≤ x ≤ 10^9
- 1 ≤ ai ≤ 10^9

### Example
```
Input:
4 8
2 7 5 1

Output:
1 2 4
```

## Solution Progression

### Approach 1: Brute Force - O(n³)
**Description**: Try all possible combinations of three indices.

```python
def sum_of_three_values_naive(n, x, arr):
    for i in range(n):
        for j in range(i + 1, n):
            for k in range(j + 1, n):
                if arr[i] + arr[j] + arr[k] == x:
                    return (i + 1, j + 1, k + 1)
    return "IMPOSSIBLE"
```

**Why this is inefficient**: We try all O(n³) combinations, leading to cubic time complexity.

### Improvement 1: Two Pointers - O(n²)
**Description**: Fix one element and use two pointers for the remaining two.

```python
def sum_of_three_values_optimized(n, x, arr):
    # Create list of (value, index) pairs
    pairs = [(arr[i], i + 1) for i in range(n)]
    pairs.sort()  # Sort by value
    
    for i in range(n - 2):
        left = i + 1
        right = n - 1
        target = x - pairs[i][0]
        
        while left < right:
            current_sum = pairs[left][0] + pairs[right][0]
            
            if current_sum == target:
                return (pairs[i][1], pairs[left][1], pairs[right][1])
            elif current_sum < target:
                left += 1
            else:
                right -= 1
    
    return "IMPOSSIBLE"
```

**Why this improvement works**: We fix one element and use two pointers to find the remaining two elements that sum to the target. This reduces the complexity from O(n³) to O(n²).

## Final Optimal Solution

```python
n, x = map(int, input().split())
arr = list(map(int, input().split()))

def find_three_values(n, x, arr):
    # Create list of (value, index) pairs
    pairs = [(arr[i], i + 1) for i in range(n)]
    pairs.sort()  # Sort by value
    
    for i in range(n - 2):
        left = i + 1
        right = n - 1
        target = x - pairs[i][0]
        
        while left < right:
            current_sum = pairs[left][0] + pairs[right][0]
            
            if current_sum == target:
                return (pairs[i][1], pairs[left][1], pairs[right][1])
            elif current_sum < target:
                left += 1
            else:
                right -= 1
    
    return "IMPOSSIBLE"

result = find_three_values(n, x, arr)
if result == "IMPOSSIBLE":
    print(result)
else:
    print(*result)
```

## Complexity Analysis

| Approach | Time Complexity | Space Complexity | Key Insight |
|----------|----------------|------------------|-------------|
| Brute Force | O(n³) | O(1) | Try all combinations |
| Two Pointers | O(n²) | O(n) | Fix one element and use two pointers |

## Key Insights for Other Problems

### 1. **Three Sum Problems**
**Principle**: Fix one element and use two pointers to find the remaining two elements.
**Applicable to**: Three sum problems, k-sum problems, pointer problems

### 2. **Two Pointers Technique**
**Principle**: Use two pointers to efficiently find pairs that sum to a target value.
**Applicable to**: Two sum problems, pointer problems, search problems

### 3. **Sorting for Efficiency**
**Principle**: Sort the array to enable efficient two-pointer search.
**Applicable to**: Sorting problems, search problems, optimization problems

## Notable Techniques

### 1. **Three Sum with Two Pointers**
```python
def three_sum_with_pointers(arr, target):
    pairs = [(arr[i], i) for i in range(len(arr))]
    pairs.sort()
    
    for i in range(len(arr) - 2):
        left = i + 1
        right = len(arr) - 1
        current_target = target - pairs[i][0]
        
        while left < right:
            current_sum = pairs[left][0] + pairs[right][0]
            
            if current_sum == current_target:
                return (pairs[i][1], pairs[left][1], pairs[right][1])
            elif current_sum < current_target:
                left += 1
            else:
                right -= 1
    
    return None
```

### 2. **Two Pointer Search**
```python
def two_pointer_search(arr, target):
    left = 0
    right = len(arr) - 1
    
    while left < right:
        current_sum = arr[left] + arr[right]
        
        if current_sum == target:
            return (left, right)
        elif current_sum < target:
            left += 1
        else:
            right -= 1
    
    return None
```

### 3. **Index Tracking**
```python
def track_indices_with_values(arr):
    # Create pairs of (value, original_index)
    pairs = [(arr[i], i + 1) for i in range(len(arr))]
    pairs.sort(key=lambda x: x[0])
    return pairs
```

## Problem-Solving Framework

1. **Identify problem type**: This is a three sum problem with index tracking
2. **Choose approach**: Use two pointers technique after sorting
3. **Create pairs**: Store (value, index) pairs to track original indices
4. **Sort pairs**: Sort by value to enable two-pointer search
5. **Fix one element**: Iterate through all possible first elements
6. **Two pointer search**: Use two pointers to find remaining two elements
7. **Return result**: Output the three indices or "IMPOSSIBLE"

---

*This analysis shows how to efficiently find three values that sum to a target using two pointers technique.* 

## 🎯 Problem Variations & Related Questions

### 🔄 **Variations of the Original Problem**

#### **Variation 1: Sum of Three Values with Constraints**
**Problem**: Find three values with sum x where values must satisfy certain constraints.
```python
def sum_of_three_values_with_constraints(n, x, arr, constraints):
    # constraints[i] = list of indices that cannot be used with index i
    pairs = [(arr[i], i + 1) for i in range(n)]
    pairs.sort()
    
    for i in range(n - 2):
        left = i + 1
        right = n - 1
        target = x - pairs[i][0]
        
        while left < right:
            # Check if current combination violates constraints
            idx1, idx2, idx3 = pairs[i][1], pairs[left][1], pairs[right][1]
            
            valid = True
            for constraint_idx in constraints.get(idx1, []):
                if constraint_idx in [idx2, idx3]:
                    valid = False
                    break
            
            if valid:
                current_sum = pairs[left][0] + pairs[right][0]
                
                if current_sum == target:
                    return (idx1, idx2, idx3)
                elif current_sum < target:
                    left += 1
                else:
                    right -= 1
            else:
                left += 1
    
    return "IMPOSSIBLE"
```

#### **Variation 2: Sum of Three Values with Range Constraints**
**Problem**: Find three values with sum in range [L, R].
```python
def sum_of_three_values_in_range(n, L, R, arr):
    pairs = [(arr[i], i + 1) for i in range(n)]
    pairs.sort()
    
    solutions = []
    
    for i in range(n - 2):
        left = i + 1
        right = n - 1
        
        while left < right:
            current_sum = pairs[i][0] + pairs[left][0] + pairs[right][0]
            
            if L <= current_sum <= R:
                solutions.append((pairs[i][1], pairs[left][1], pairs[right][1]))
                left += 1
                right -= 1
            elif current_sum < L:
                left += 1
            else:
                right -= 1
    
    return solutions if solutions else "IMPOSSIBLE"
```

#### **Variation 3: Sum of Three Values with Modulo Constraints**
**Problem**: Find three values with sum congruent to x modulo m.
```python
def sum_of_three_values_modulo(n, x, m, arr):
    pairs = [(arr[i], i + 1) for i in range(n)]
    pairs.sort()
    
    for i in range(n - 2):
        left = i + 1
        right = n - 1
        target_mod = (x - pairs[i][0]) % m
        
        while left < right:
            current_sum_mod = (pairs[left][0] + pairs[right][0]) % m
            
            if current_sum_mod == target_mod:
                return (pairs[i][1], pairs[left][1], pairs[right][1])
            elif current_sum_mod < target_mod:
                left += 1
            else:
                right -= 1
    
    return "IMPOSSIBLE"
```

#### **Variation 4: Sum of Three Values with Dynamic Updates**
**Problem**: Support adding and removing elements dynamically.
```python
class DynamicThreeSum:
    def __init__(self):
        self.arr = []
        self.pairs = []
    
    def add_element(self, value):
        self.arr.append(value)
        self.pairs = [(self.arr[i], i + 1) for i in range(len(self.arr))]
        self.pairs.sort()
        return self.find_three_sum(0)  # Example target
    
    def remove_element(self, index):
        if 0 <= index < len(self.arr):
            self.arr.pop(index)
            self.pairs = [(self.arr[i], i + 1) for i in range(len(self.arr))]
            self.pairs.sort()
        return self.find_three_sum(0)  # Example target
    
    def find_three_sum(self, x):
        n = len(self.pairs)
        
        for i in range(n - 2):
            left = i + 1
            right = n - 1
            target = x - self.pairs[i][0]
            
            while left < right:
                current_sum = self.pairs[left][0] + self.pairs[right][0]
                
                if current_sum == target:
                    return (self.pairs[i][1], self.pairs[left][1], self.pairs[right][1])
                elif current_sum < target:
                    left += 1
                else:
                    right -= 1
        
        return "IMPOSSIBLE"
```

#### **Variation 5: Sum of Three Values with Weighted Constraints**
**Problem**: Each element has a weight. Find three values with sum x and total weight ≤ W.
```python
def sum_of_three_values_weighted(n, x, arr, weights, max_weight):
    # Create list of (value, weight, index) tuples
    tuples = [(arr[i], weights[i], i + 1) for i in range(n)]
    tuples.sort(key=lambda x: x[0])  # Sort by value
    
    for i in range(n - 2):
        left = i + 1
        right = n - 1
        target = x - tuples[i][0]
        
        while left < right:
            current_sum = tuples[left][0] + tuples[right][0]
            total_weight = tuples[i][1] + tuples[left][1] + tuples[right][1]
            
            if current_sum == target and total_weight <= max_weight:
                return (tuples[i][2], tuples[left][2], tuples[right][2])
            elif current_sum < target:
                left += 1
            else:
                right -= 1
    
    return "IMPOSSIBLE"
```

### 🔗 **Related Problems & Concepts**

#### **1. Two Pointers Problems**
- **Two Sum**: Find pair with given sum
- **Container With Most Water**: Find maximum area
- **Trapping Rain Water**: Calculate trapped water
- **Remove Duplicates**: Remove duplicates from sorted array

#### **2. Search Problems**
- **Binary Search**: Find element in sorted array
- **Linear Search**: Find element in unsorted array
- **Interpolation Search**: Search in uniformly distributed array
- **Exponential Search**: Search in unbounded array

#### **3. Array Manipulation Problems**
- **Array Sorting**: Sort array efficiently
- **Array Partitioning**: Partition array based on conditions
- **Array Merging**: Merge sorted arrays
- **Array Rotation**: Rotate array efficiently

#### **4. Optimization Problems**
- **Linear Programming**: Formulate as LP problem
- **Integer Programming**: Discrete optimization
- **Combinatorial Optimization**: Optimize discrete structures
- **Approximation Algorithms**: Find approximate solutions

#### **5. Mathematical Problems**
- **Number Theory**: Properties of numbers
- **Combinatorics**: Counting and arrangement
- **Optimization**: Mathematical optimization
- **Algorithm Analysis**: Complexity and correctness

### 🎯 **Competitive Programming Variations**

#### **1. Multiple Test Cases**
```python
t = int(input())
for _ in range(t):
    n, x = map(int, input().split())
    arr = list(map(int, input().split()))
    
    pairs = [(arr[i], i + 1) for i in range(n)]
    pairs.sort()
    
    found = False
    for i in range(n - 2):
        left = i + 1
        right = n - 1
        target = x - pairs[i][0]
        
        while left < right:
            current_sum = pairs[left][0] + pairs[right][0]
            
            if current_sum == target:
                print(pairs[i][1], pairs[left][1], pairs[right][1])
                found = True
                break
            elif current_sum < target:
                left += 1
            else:
                right -= 1
        
        if found:
            break
    
    if not found:
        print("IMPOSSIBLE")
```

#### **2. Range Queries**
```python
# Precompute three-sum results for different subarrays
def precompute_three_sums(arr):
    n = len(arr)
    result_matrix = [[None] * n for _ in range(n)]
    
    for i in range(n):
        for j in range(i, n):
            subarray = arr[i:j+1]
            if len(subarray) >= 3:
                # Find three-sum for this subarray
                pairs = [(subarray[k], k + i + 1) for k in range(len(subarray))]
                pairs.sort()
                
                found = False
                for k in range(len(pairs) - 2):
                    left = k + 1
                    right = len(pairs) - 1
                    target = 0 - pairs[k][0]  # Example target
                    
                    while left < right:
                        current_sum = pairs[left][0] + pairs[right][0]
                        
                        if current_sum == target:
                            result_matrix[i][j] = (pairs[k][1], pairs[left][1], pairs[right][1])
                            found = True
                            break
                        elif current_sum < target:
                            left += 1
                        else:
                            right -= 1
                    
                    if found:
                        break
                
                if not found:
                    result_matrix[i][j] = "IMPOSSIBLE"
    
    return result_matrix

# Answer queries about three-sum for subarrays
def three_sum_query(result_matrix, l, r):
    return result_matrix[l][r]
```

#### **3. Interactive Problems**
```python
# Interactive three-sum finder
def interactive_three_sum():
    n = int(input("Enter array size: "))
    x = int(input("Enter target sum: "))
    arr = list(map(int, input("Enter array: ").split()))
    
    print(f"Array: {arr}")
    print(f"Target sum: {x}")
    
    pairs = [(arr[i], i + 1) for i in range(n)]
    pairs.sort()
    print(f"Sorted pairs: {pairs}")
    
    found = False
    for i in range(n - 2):
        left = i + 1
        right = n - 1
        target = x - pairs[i][0]
        
        print(f"\nFixing element {pairs[i][0]} at position {pairs[i][1]}")
        print(f"Looking for two elements that sum to {target}")
        
        while left < right:
            current_sum = pairs[left][0] + pairs[right][0]
            print(f"Checking {pairs[left][0]} + {pairs[right][0]} = {current_sum}")
            
            if current_sum == target:
                print(f"Found solution: {pairs[i][1]} {pairs[left][1]} {pairs[right][1]}")
                found = True
                break
            elif current_sum < target:
                print(f"Sum too small, moving left pointer")
                left += 1
            else:
                print(f"Sum too large, moving right pointer")
                right -= 1
        
        if found:
            break
    
    if not found:
        print("IMPOSSIBLE")
```

### 🧮 **Mathematical Extensions**

#### **1. Number Theory**
- **Properties of Sums**: Properties of number sums
- **Divisibility**: Properties of divisibility
- **Modular Arithmetic**: Working with remainders
- **Prime Factorization**: Breaking numbers into primes

#### **2. Combinatorics**
- **Combinations**: Counting combinations
- **Permutations**: Counting permutations
- **Subset Sums**: Counting subset sums
- **Partitions**: Number partitions

#### **3. Algorithm Analysis**
- **Complexity Analysis**: Time and space complexity
- **Two Pointers Analysis**: Analysis of two pointers technique
- **Search Complexity**: Complexity of search algorithms
- **Lower Bounds**: Establishing problem lower bounds

### 📚 **Learning Resources**

#### **1. Related Algorithms**
- **Two Pointers**: Efficient two pointers technique
- **Binary Search**: Efficient search algorithms
- **Sorting Algorithms**: Various sorting techniques
- **Search Algorithms**: Efficient search techniques

#### **2. Mathematical Concepts**
- **Number Theory**: Properties of numbers
- **Combinatorics**: Counting and arrangement
- **Optimization**: Mathematical optimization theory
- **Algorithm Analysis**: Complexity and correctness

#### **3. Programming Concepts**
- **Two Pointers Implementation**: Efficient two pointers
- **Search Implementation**: Efficient search techniques
- **Algorithm Design**: Problem-solving strategies
- **Complexity Analysis**: Performance evaluation

---

*This analysis demonstrates two pointers and search techniques for finding three values with given sum.*
